--Types of SQL Commands


   DDL(Data Definition Language): To make/perform changes to the physical structure of any table residing inside a database, DDL is used. 
                                  These commands when executed are auto-commit in nature and all the changes in the table are reflected and saved immediately.

   DML(Data Manipulation Language): Once the tables are created and the database is generated using DDL commands, 
                                    manipulation inside those tables and databases is done using DML commands. 
                                    The advantage of using DML commands is, that if in case any wrong changes or values are made, they can be changed and rolled back easily.

   DQL(Data Query Language):      Data query language consists of only one command upon which data selection in SQL relies.
                                  The SELECT command in combination with other SQL clauses is used to retrieve and fetch data from databases/tables based on certain conditions applied by the user.

   DCL(Data Control Language): DCL commands as the name suggests manage the matters and issues related to the data controller in any database. 
                               DCL includes commands such as GRANT and REVOKE which mainly deal with the rights, permissions, and other controls of the database system.

   TCL(Transaction Control Language): Transaction Control Language as the name suggests manages the issues and matters related to the transactions in any database. 
                                      They are used to roll back or commit the changes in the database.



   




Data Control Language
DCL is used to access the stored data. It is used to revoke and grant the user the required access to a database. In the database, this language does not have the feature of rollback. It is a part of the structured query language (SQL).

It helps in controlling access to information stored in a database. It complements the data manipulation language and the data definition language. It is the simplest of three commands.

It provides the administrators, to remove and set database permissions to desired users as needed. These commands are employed to grant, remove and deny permissions to users for retrieving and manipulating a database. There are two relevant commands under this category: grant and revoke.

GRANT

GRANT is a command used to provide access or privileges on the database objects to the users.

SYNTAX

GRANT PRIVILEGES
ON OBJECT
TO USER;

grant-command-types

SELECT:

To grant Select Privilege to a table named “tableName", the user name is "userName", and the following GRANT statement should be executed.

GRANT SELECT
ON tableName
TO 'userName'@'localhost';

Granting multiple privileges to a user:

To grant multiple Privileges to a user named “username" in table “tableName”, the following GRANT statement should be executed:

GRANT SELECT, INSERT, DELETE, UPDATE
ON tableName
TO 'userName'@'localhost';

Granting all the privileges to a user:

To Grant all the privileges to a user named “userName” in a table “tableName”, the following Grant statement should be executed.

GRANT ALL
ON tableName
TO 'userName'@'localhost';

Granting a privilege to all users:

To Grant a specific privilege to all the users in a table “tableName" this Grant statement should be executed.

GRANT SELECT
ON tableName
TO '*'@'localhost';

REVOKE

Once you have granted privileges, you may need to revoke some or all of these privileges. To do this, you can run a revoke command. You can revoke any combination of SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, REFERENCES, ALTER, or ALL.

REVOKE privileges
ON object
FROM user;

Object is the name of the database object that you are revoking privileges for. In the case of revoking privileges on a table, this would be the table name. Username of the user that will have these privileges revoked.

Suppose we need to revoke delete permission for the 'tableName' table' from a user named 'userNamed', the following would be the query.

REVOKE DELETE
ON tableName
FROM userName;

To remove every permission use 'ALL'.

REVOKE ALL
ON tableName
FROM userName;

Transaction Control Language
TCL includes statements that are used to manage the changes that are made from DML statements. It enhances the transactional nature of SQL. The TCL commands in SQL are:

COMMIT: It's a SQL command used in the transaction tables or database to make the current transaction or database statement permanent. It shows the successful completion of a transaction. If we have successfully executed the transaction statement or a simple database query, we want to make the changes permanent. We need to perform the commit command to save the changes, and these changes become permanent for all users. Furthermore, once the commit command is executed in the database, we cannot regain its previous states in which it was earlier before the execution of the first statement.

SYNTAX

commit;

ROLLBACK: Undoes any changes made to the database. ROLLBACK is the SQL command that is used for reverting changes performed by a transaction. When a ROLLBACK command is issued it reverts all the changes since the last COMMIT or ROLLBACK.

SYNTAX

ROLLBACK;

SAVEPOINT: This command creates a point in your transaction to which you can roll back. It is a command in SQL that is used with the rollback command. It is a command in Transaction Control Language that is used to mark the transaction in a table.

SYNTAX

SAVEPOINT some_name;
